Solo exhibition 《Hugged tight but couldn't reach other》 (Outhouse, 2021)


									
Anbuh | Artist, the director of Outhouse




It happens that a sentence strikes one: '… Life is a joke.' But jokes life has made often went too far and still it does. There is nothing to be taken for granted, as ever. What you expected to be natural has never once been. But where the hell did you start to think things in this way?
  
It's very plausible to say your dream of the flying car was set in 2021. Even though the clock can't make a hologram of its display, an era has come that the clock can save the lives of people. Come to think of it; the future has always been the realm of how much the advancement of science and technology goes, never been the realm of where art is heading to. Maybe ARTificial intelligence and robots which replace the traditional artists? Yet, despite the convenience of computers, tablets, or even smartphones, we, humans still draw with paints and brushes. Everything seemed to change – and many things actually have done – but something valuable and irreplaceable has survived and may last forever. 

There is a painting that is like a poem: not-a-writing with words and sentences, legibly un-legible, and unapprehended but seems apprehended. Yes, we can say of a painting as scattered words. There would be a smooth harmony or unexpected combination. Words that are expected to come next actually don't, and ambiguity and disorder finally find their connecting links.


[ Baptize the ocean and iron leaves of forests. A contorted key and dull scissors. A sunflower looking down and the beauty of a tree reviling its bottomless bottom.]
This intended sentence would be easy to understand. Or it would be like bullshit. Imagination / reality ￜ emotion / state ￜ message / feeling this would be. Poetry puzzles people for whom it was all about rhythms, hidden meanings, deciphering based on historical background, and then memorizing all this stuff. Likewise, drawings drive people confused who only focus on finding the clear answer, and dismiss drawings as meaningless or unanswerable. But all you need to do is to follow your way.

Bittersweet ; 씁쓸하면서 달콤한, 괴로우면서 즐거운, 설탕을 거의 넣지 않은 초콜릿 따위, 쓴맛 섞인 단 맛, 좋기도 하고 슬프기도 한

There once was a sentence that stroke us without any reason. But there is more context, and I prefer that previous sentence. 'Absurd, trivial accidents lead this life. So do not ever try to think of the meaning of it. Life is a joke.'1 			

And I didn't read that book.



 1  『A gift from a bird』 , Eun Heekyung. 
