 ≪Hugged tight but couldn’t reach each other≫ (Solo Exhibition, Outhouse, 2021)
 : Exhibition Review


Junghyun Kwon (Curator, Critic)

<Between You and I>

A sofa, a cup, and a fishbowl. A key, a pair of scissors, and a sunflower. A cloud, a firework, and an hourglass. I try to find a sentence among scattered pieces of words. Every trial always collapses. You don’t make a sentence by putting a connection link into words. You don’t want words to be a sentence, be fixed in death. Instead, you let them be themselves by embracing the infinite void. You don’t believe a language could be defined as something else and then get an eternal value. Roland Barthes once said, “A text is not a line of words releasing a single ‘theological’ meaning (the message of the Author-God) but a multi-dimensional space in which a variety of writings, none of them original, blend and clash. The text is a tissue of quotations drawn from the innumerable centres of culture. …” You create a loose texture of objects whose meaning is obscured. You don’t want me to read one fixed narrative from your painting.

I confront loose textures. Give up the vague links between textures. Reorder textures and read them in some new ways. Fill in vacuums between words and make a new connection. Barthes distinguishes between ‘le lisible texte (readerly text) and ‘le scriptable texte (writerly text).’ The former is closed writing that commands specific meanings and objects, and then makes readers those meanings. On the other hand, the latter is “is a perpetual present, upon which no consequent language (which would inevitably make it past) can be superimposed.” Barthes said, the reader who enjoys the readerly texts does not make the text fixed but current and renews them every moment. I make a new narrative with pieces. You put a square frame in a square frame in a square frame in a square canvas. I make a narrative by changing the order of frames. One story, and then another new story has been born.

You don’t make one complete story, but also don’t abandon your pieces completely meaningless. You leave a trace of your story. You put your emotions through the cracks between pieces. There is one unknown sad face and a withered flower among plain things. A key that cannot open the door, a pair of scissors that cannot cut anything, a flower looking down, and a fallen chair that cannot stand. Somehow imperfect and strange, those things are all there, pretending to be fine. They resemble sadness in terms of lack and insufficiency. Silhouettes that look like sadness are sometimes rough, chaotic, and disordered. You secretly leave your mood by erasing, adding, or blurring those silhouettes.

Between those lines, narratives of you and I overlap and contradict. Your sceneries and emotions meet and adieu my memories in a moment. You don’t tell me what your sadness is. Rather, you communicate the shape of sadness, and I match it with my similar emotions. You don’t expect me to perfectly understand your sorrow. No, you don’t believe that you can wholly convey melancholy The belief seems arrogant and absurd. Rather than tell your sorrow completely, you just hope to find something like your sorrow. You and I put together the pieces of ourselves, in the hope that you and I could reach each other.