Lucid Mystery / Dark Clarity (Duo Exhibition, Hakgojae gallery, 2023)

Jin-myung Lee | Art Critic


In the play The Bacchae, by the Greek tragic poet Euripides (c. 480 – c. 406 BC), a womanparticipates in a festival honoring Dionysus held on the outskirts of Thebes. As the festivalis about to reach its peak, an event is held to kill a lion living in the mountains. The woman,intoxicated with joy, slaughters the lion. The lion’s limbs are severed and all the flesh isshredded. It is only after awakening from her illusion that she realizes the lion head trophy inher hands, is none other than the head of her son Pentheus. Why would one choose to expresssuch a story through art?
Similar cases exist in East Asia. One that comes to mind is the avant-garde Japanese dancecalled ankoku butoh, or “dance of darkness,” allegedly created by postwar avant-garde dancerTatsumi Hijikata (1928–1986). In his own ankoku butoh performance, Hijikata removes all hisclothes to show off a gold-plated phallus while dancing in bridal attire. In other scenes, arooster appears to be killed and a character is suspended in the air tied by the hands and feetbefore disappearing into the darkness. Nam June Paik (1932–2006) once described the absurdsituation in this play, which is impossible to infer or predict through human reason or logic, asfollows:
“I cannot describe it very correctly after thirty years, but my impression at that time wasthat it was quite original, fresh, and touched on the dark source of the deep Asian soul. . . .I use the German word unheimlich which combines the feelings of inscrutable, mysterious,profound, scary, and quiet.”1
These two examples highlight the unconsciousness, enigmatic emotions, and mysteriousfeelings that flow within the abyss of human cultural behavior. When met with the frightfuland eerie reality this situation triggers, we endlessly seek to understand the nature andexistence of such emotions, yet end up frustrated [for the lack of answers]. And so, thechallenge persists. The same can be said of our two young artists.

Artists Seeun Kim and Yoori express incomprehensible phenomena occurring in realitythrough painting. However, despite evident similarities in their approach and medium, theydo not necessarily share a common world. Rather, their will is on a different dimension fromothers.
In the history of painting, there has been a progression from representing form to removingform; from removing form to questioning the essence of painting; from questioning theessence of painting to, eventually, pursuing a reunion with form. From this perspective, artistSeeun Kim is quite unique. Her work is surprising in that she not only speaks about ourever-changing reality in a new visual language, but also establishes a totally new form not yetseen in the history of painting. She achieves this by merging close and distant views at onceand combining, emptying, and editing the temporal differences between past and presentlandscapes.
The English poet T. S. Eliot (1888–1965) writes in “East Coker,” the second poem of his FourQuartets.
In my beginning is my end. In successionHouses rise and fall, crumble, are extended,Are removed, destroyed, restored, or in their placeIs an open field, or a factory, or a by-pass.Old stone to new building, old timber to new fires,Old fires to ashes, and ashes to the earthWhich is already flesh, fur and faeces,Bone of man and beast, cornstalk and leaf.Houses live and die: there is a time for buildingAnd a time for living and for generationAnd a time for the wind to break the loosened paneAnd to shake the wainscot where the field-mouse trotsAnd to shake the tattered arras woven with a silent motto.2
Kim’s paintings deal with the process of eternal change, creation, and extinction, and theeternal repetition thereof. The Buddhist concept of pratityasamutpada in Sanskrit is translatedas “arising.” Essentially meaning that things happen take place in relation to the cause ofother things, events, or time. Something that has occurred once is bound to disappear again inconjunction with other objects, events, or temporal factors. Everything is therefore real and,if time is compressed, simultaneously empty. The art world Kim devotes herself to lies withinthis philosophy, and she chooses to express it in a surprising way.

However, there is an issue that needs further consideration. Despite Kim’s works appearingto be composed purely of thoughts expressed via an exquisite combination of abstract andrepresentational elements, the symbols hidden behind her thoughtful strokes and bold colorsshould not be overlooked. External factors such as industrialism, capitalism, and human desirehave given way to the current urban landscape, which is under constant transformation. Thus,our way of life sits in stark contrast to that of our ancestors. Kim’s world moves us because aform of life is implicitly revealed in her work. Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889–1951) once said: “Toimagine a language means to imagine a form of life.”3
Therefore, by that logic, visual language—such as painting—is also a form of life. Additionally,Wittgenstein speaks of language on a different level:
When I think in words, I don’t have “meanings” in my mind in addition to the verbalexpression; rather, language itself is the vehicle of thought.4
In contrast, artist Yoori writes: “My art expresses that which cannot be expressed througha language composed of letters.”5 Wittgenstein views language as a means of transportingthoughts and argues that language is more than just related to life; indeed, language is lifeitself. However, if we consider the time and reason behind language’s origin, it is easier tosympathize with the art world found in Yoori’s paintings than with Wittgenstein’s philosophy.
In ancient times, humans could not distinguish paintings from reality. Unable to recognizethemselves as the subject, the object and the self were not distinguished. Humans lived inharmony with nature, as expressed in the Latin word in-sist. (In Latin, in means “within” or“inside” and sist means “remain,” “stay” or “stand.”) They were in a magical consciousness.This state is also called Paradise. However, the development of writing led to the criticismof this magical consciousness. Written characters helped humans to reflect on situations andobjects based on the before-and-after context of an event, temporal awareness, and causeand effect. From then on, people began to “ex-sist,” that is, they saw themselves as separatefrom nature and became self-aware. Self-awareness can also be referred to as historicalconsciousness or rationality. However, the world does not operate on the temporality ofhistorical consciousness or the logical calculations of reason. Forces that we cannot explaindominate us. We are aware of an inexplicable power yet cannot see it clearly. An infinite spaceexists between 0 and 1, but we can only count from 0 to 1. We cannot get in between them.We see the sun and the earth but cannot perceive the infinite energy between them. Similarly,we think with language but live through phenomena, feelings, and realities that are outside therealm of language. Artist Yoori expresses that which Nam June Paik called unheimlich, throughpainting.

Lucid Mystery / Dark Clarity is a visual language and a pictorial world. It is about the partsof our lives that appear defined yet remain mysterious—invisible facts existing behind thedarkness. The former refers to the world of space revealed in Seeun Kim’s paintings, and thelatter to the world of language in Yoori’s paintings. We all seek to interpret the secrets of our reality. However, these have never been deciphered. Only attempts to know and understandhave been repeated endlessly through time. In the words of the 18th-century German poetGottfried August Bürger (1747–1794):
Ye wise man, highly, deeply learned,Who think it out and know,How, when and where do all things pair?Why do they kiss and love?Ye men of lofty wisdom sayWhat happened to me then,Search out and tell me where, how, when,And why it happened thus.6
Bürger thus pleads with the sage because the meaning of life and all events that occurredso far remain unknown. Through his poetry he expresses that the secret of life is full ofimpenetrable mysteries. Like Bürger, artists Seeun Kim and Yoori also question life’s secrets,relying on the wisdom of painting built by humankind over thousands of years.




1 Arthur Danto, The Madonna of the Future: Essay in a Pluralistic Art World (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2001), 112.2 T. S. Eliot, “East Coker,” in Four Quartets (Boston: Mariner Books, 2023), 22.3 Ludwig Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigation (Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2009), 11e.4 Ibid., 113e.5 Yoori, Artist’s Note (2022).6 王國維 (作), 周錫山 (評校), 『王國維文學美學論著集』(上海: 上海三聯書店, 2018), 16.





