《Mysterious Solidarities of Messengers》

The exhibition Mysterious Solidarities of Messengers explores the totality of unique sensations and empathic experiences occurring between humans, nature, and art, metaphorically represented through the realm of messengers.
Beginning with the hypothesis of the role of ‘messengers,’ the exhibition focuses on tracing their origin, serving as a starting point to stimulate imagination. Mythological beings like Hermes, who traverse between the earthly and underworld to convey messages of the gods, and figures like Gabriel from the Annunciation, derived from the Latin word ‘annuntio’ meaning ‘to announce,’ have occupied a realm converging towards intermediaries such as guides, mediators, and intermediaries excluded from explicit relationships. They appear and disappear repeatedly in the form of moving entities imbued with flickering lights, flashes, currents, and noise within circuits, traversing between concrete forms and the ‘formless’ absoluteness. Michel Serres (1930-2019), in his book Angels: A Modern Myth, describes ‘angels’ as embodiments of circulation that transcend localized concepts, providing an integral wholeness and expanding beyond. Messengers form relationships with one or more others, serving as conduits that unfold vertical and horizontal paths, becoming a link towards the world, and thereby forging a new epistemological map. In accordance with this unfolding, the exhibition explores the potential and forms of numerous entities surrounding us, unseen and examines the possibility of existence forms that are difficult to articulate in language. In the realm of the unknown, the potential to recognize the speaker emerges from the autonomous practice of sculptural language and art, manifested in the ‘selected senses’ and ‘forms of combination.’ The exhibition warmly embraces the role and function of the ‘messenger’ in acknowledging the fundamental vitality between material and immaterial elements that constitute artworks.
The origin of Hermes is from ‘herma’, and the derived word from here is ‘hermetic,’ which means crossing, moving and transition. The six artists introduced through the exhibition, Koh San Keum, Bae In Sook, Yoori, Leebinsoyeon, Lee San Oh, and You Lee, approach these concepts and notions, translating the diverse combinations of senses and boundaries that are scattered without a special distinction between human and non-human, nature and non-nature, through various media. The title of the exhibition, Mysterious Solidarities of Messengers is taken from Pascal Quignard’s novel The Mysterious Solidaritie. His novel, unfolding narratives towards the unknown territories surrounding us, intertwines with the theme of this exhibition, which will be perceived with a sense of mysterious abundance. The mesh entangled with sensory experiences and a consciousness continuum converges here and now, binding into one.
There we have the constructed networks in which we live, and all the various forms of circulation;There we have the world of physical fluxes (…) If winds, currents, glaciers, volcanoes etc., carry subtle messages that are so difficult to read that it takes us absolutely ages trying to decipher them, wouldn’t it be appropriate to call them intelligent? What human could ever presume to speak a language that was so precise, refined and exquisitely coded? (Michel Serres, "Angels: A Modern Myth” (Flammarion: First UK edition, 1995))

Leebinsoyeon sensitively handles various media such as video, installation, and digital painting, paying attention to the various situations surrounding us and the relationships unfolding within them. The starting point of this exhibition, Fairy Mobility investment seminar video: The Orphan engineering (2023), traces the realm of movement between senders and receivers embedded in humans, culture, and nature, and the disappearing message delivery system, seeking its origin in the ‘fairy ring,’ also known as the pixie ring drawn by fairies. On the other hand, She presents the installation work Ring Ring (2024), intertwining speculative imaginations based on the unique character from Korean family relationships and childhood incidents between the artist and her aunt. During teleportation from one space to another in the 3D CG online game ‘Second Life,’ You Lee lost parts of her avatar’s body due to a graphic error. This experience naturally syncs with the artist’s personal time spent immigrating to New Zealand and the UK and engaging in a long-distance relationship (LDR). The sensation and concept of ‘connection’ inherent in the body are projected into images mediated by both reality and electronic media, functioning as an inevitable methodology throughout the work. Bae In Sook has been creating sound devices completed by interaction by combining music and installations, forming a principle in which the body immerses itself in the artwork. Last spring and summer, the artist recorded the sounds of birds in forests across Gyeonggi-do, Gangwon-do, Jeju Island, and other regions. The birds appeared precisely during the darkest and quietest hours before dawn, creating an atmosphere akin to mirages. Simeon Pease Cheney(1818~1890) transcribed the songs of birds, interpreting the sounds of nature into the language of music. Similarly, the artist translates the experience of dominating the entire space through sound alone into an installation with eight speaker boxes and LED lights. Yoori begins her work by paying attention to the ‘senses’ that respond to daily experiences and emotions. In the process, she breaks away from the usage of ‘nouns and verbs dependent on materiality’ in the ‘dimension’ where language cannot be articulated, sharpening her ‘keen sensitivity’ towards a ‘communication system.’ The painting work, dispersed from the dimension of ‘time and existence’, is installed together with a four-piece work entitled Too Heavy to Flip (2023-2024), also called an ‘artist book.’ The artist recalls the fleeting moment of turning a single page. Holding onto the belief that one can perceive, and the expectation that one can amplify unheard voices, she bridges the gap between numerous senders and receivers. Koh San Keum has been exploring the principles of form in visual frameworks by dissecting screens based on textual systems such as novels, newspapers, poetry, philosophy books, and law books. She proceeds with the work by using tiny artificial pearls, the main material of the piece, to consistently arrange them according to the number of characters and spacing or to deconstruct sentence structures. Her approach to physical effort naturally removes the original semantic context, shining in a new dimension of language along with the inherent meaning embedded in the properties of the pearl. Lee San Oh records specific phrases and words acquired in the flow of neutrality between memory and unconsciousness with painting. She expands spontaneously emerging images, established as equivalent to the structure where writing occurs, from drawing into various media such as sculpture and painting. The artist’s attempt to capture shapes that cannot be grasped through visual experiences is sublimated into the form of birds and supernatural images that appear throughout the artwork. The new work entitled “Guide” (2024), which traverses through human, city, myth, and nature, presenting their possibilities, and her sculptural works, resembling emerging from a painting, stitch the space as motifs of spirits and intermediate zones, transcending life and death, underground and aboveground, day and night.


Written by Joo-ok Han